The two types that we're going to look at
is what's called face centered cubic and
body centered cubic. That's where we're
going to focus this class. And you can
see many of the common metals have one of
these two types of structures. We're also
going to talk just very briefly about the
hexagonal close pack system, but we're
going to focus all of our. Calculations
on the face centered.
FCC or BCC body
centered. So let's
first take a look at the face
centered cubic. As you can see, the
face centered cubic structure, the 1st,
it's a cube cubic. So we've got
atoms forming the cube here if I
look at the positions of the atom
centers and then at the face of
each cube. You have an atom,
so face centered cubic.
There's another view of that, and this is
showing you what the true unit cell is.
That is the repeat unit, and it's showing
you here now that we are going indeed
from the atom centers.
And so that's what's actually repeated.
So if we continue to add in more and
more pieces, we can see that we build up
this face centered cubic structure.
All right, So a couple of things we want
to know about when we're looking at the
structures. We want to know about how
efficient the atoms are packed into the
structure and how much of that is, how
much of this unit cell is space and how
much of it is atom. And we want
to do something about. How to
find?The length of
the cube edge A in terms
of the radius.
R of our atoms. OK, so first thing, let's
go ahead and take a look at the number
of atoms per unit cell. Can we have
listed here 4 and how do we get that?
So we've got, if we take a look
at our cell up here, you can see
that we've got 1/2 of an atom here
at the face.
OK. And there are six
faces. Times 1/2
of an atom for each face center.
So that's three atoms. And then notice
that the atoms on the corners are
actually an eighth of an atom, and
there's eight corners.
So that's one atom and so
we have 4 complete atom volumes
in one of our unit cells.
So we've got 4 atoms.
Per.
Area cubed.
Of our unit cell, right? Our volume of
our unit cell is just a ^3.
So let's find a the edge length here.
So what we're going to do to find
a is we want to take a look
at our space filling model again and
locate where the atoms are touching. So
notice in the face centered system, the
atoms are touching along the face
diagonals. So what
that tells me
is that I've
got 1234R.
4 radii and relative to a.
If I draw my right triangle
here, I got A and so
that 4R there. The hypotenuse is
then just a square root 2.
OK, so that gives me that a is
equal to 4R over the square root 2.
Just just another way of writing 2R
square root 2. I'm going to leave it
in this 4R square root 2 format because
you see this will be similar to what
we see for the body centered cubic
structure. So I like this format a little
better. All right, so the atomic packing
factor here, how well to be pack.
It's just simply the volume of atoms.
Over the volume of the
unit cell. OK,
so it's the fractional amount
of atom per total volume.
We said the volume of
atoms. Well, one atom is
4 thirds π R cubed
and we've got 4 atoms
total in the unit cell.
The volume of our unit cell is
a ^3.
And a member. We already have it
written up here. A is equal to
4 R sqrt 2.
I think so. I'm going to put
that in for R square root 2
^3. All right,
so you just go ahead and simplify
these numbers. The R's cancel out, Plug
the rest of this in your calculator
and you're going to get .74 O.
In other words, this is 74% atom,
26% then is space in this unit
cell. This is actually the best. We
can do and so this is referred to as a
close packed structure.
The body centered cubic structure, again,
we've got a cube. OK, we always
call the edge length a.
But now we don't have atoms in the face,
but we have an atom sitting here in the
body center. So body centered cubic, it's
non close packed.
Let's build that by structure atomic
packing factor now or the packing
efficiency is 68%. There's
now 2 atoms in this unit cell.
And the edge length now is 4R over
sqrt 3 and I'm going to leave these
for you. To
drive yourself and then this is
the right triangle that's going to
help you with this. OK, so
edge length a.
This is across the face, so that's a
square root 2. And
then this is our body diagonal.
Yeah, I guess I'll go ahead and give that
to you a sqrt 3 right body diagonal of
the cube.